# Just-In-Time-Services-To-Track-a-School-College-vehicle
Location based Services offer many advantages to the mobile users to retrieve the   information about their current location and process that data to get more useful information   near to their location. Now days in this fast life where everyone in is hurry to reach their   destination, waiting for bus is a hectic and even many of us are unaware of the bus timing,   hence to overcome this problem we have come up with system  “Development of Just In   Time Services For A College” which aims to build an Android application that automates   many service aspects related to the college. At specific pickup point the application sends   current location of bus to the server, then server sends SMS to students who are supposed to   board at the next pickup point. The complete scenario requires everything to be done   manually &amp; there is no confusion such that bus can arrive early or late since when it leaves   from one stop, student waiting at another stop can easily receive a message/SMS. The project   does not provide any room for predictions. This application uses the GPS function, to pin   point current location fairly accurate. This application sends an SMS Alert to student who are   subscribed and also provides additional services like college/department/university related   information, notification, events, updates at the right time. It runs in the background so you   are free to use your phone for the other activities like playing games, listening songs etc.   Most of the applications developed so far use a handheld GPS receiver device for tracking   the location, but we have reduced the cost of device by using mobile phone which has an   inbuilt GPS receiver.  The application has been developed using Android and Java platforms with the   android studio tool.
